Wasm binding update (#3362)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/reference/components-reference/supported-bindings/wasm.md

---
type: docs
title: "Wasm"
linkTitle: "Wasm"
description: "Detailed documentation on the WebAssembly binding component"
aliases:
- "/operations/components/setup-bindings/supported-bindings/wasm/"
---

## Overview

With WebAssembly, you can safely run code compiled in other languages. Runtimes
execute WebAssembly Modules (Wasm), which are most often binaries with a `.wasm`
extension.

The Wasm Binding allows you to invoke a program compiled to Wasm by passing
commandline args or environment variables to it, similar to how you would with

> a normal subprocess. For example, you can satisfy an invocation using Python,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a normal subprocess. For example, you can invoke methods in an app written in  Python,
```

## Component format

To configure a Wasm binding, create a component of type
`bindings.wasm`. See [this guide]({{< ref "howto-bindings.md#1-create-a-binding" >}})
on how to create and apply a binding configuration.

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: wasm
spec:
  type: bindings.wasm
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: url
    value: "file://uppercase.wasm"
```

## Spec metadata fields

| Field | Details                                                        | Required | Example        |
|-------|----------------------------------------------------------------|----------|----------------|
| url   | The URL of the resource including the Wasm binary to instantiate. The supported schemes include `file://`. The path of a `file://` URL is relative to the Dapr process unless it begins with `/`. | true     | `file://hello.wasm` |

## Binding support

This component supports **output binding** with the following operations:

- `execute`

## Example request

The `data` field, if present will be the program's STDIN. You can optionally
pass metadata properties with each request:

- `args` any CLI arguments, comma-separated. This excludes the program name.

> For example, if your Wasm binary is `ruby.wasm`, the following request would

Reviewer: Do you need to example what is ruby.wasm here, or does this just contain the wasi runtime?

Author: sounds like I need a little more context. np

Author: tried in https://github.com/dapr/docs/pull/3362/commits/81a53f826bf67da141564c1aa247948370f005d8

---
type: docs
title: "Wasm"
linkTitle: "Wasm"
description: "Detailed documentation on the WebAssembly binding component"
aliases:
- "/operations/components/setup-bindings/supported-bindings/wasm/"
---

## Overview

> WebAssembly is a way to safely run code compiled in other languages. Runtimes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With WebAssembly, you can safely run code compiled in other languages. Runtimes
```

execute WebAssembly Modules (Wasm), which are most often binaries with a `.wasm`
extension.

> The Wasm Binding allows you to invoke a program compiled to wasm, by passing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Wasm Binding allows you to invoke a program compiled to Wasm by passing
```

commandline args or environment variables to it, similar to how you would with

> a normal subprocess. For example, you can satisfy an invocation using Python

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a normal subprocess. For example, you can satisfy an invocation using Python,
```

> even though Dapr is written in go and running on a platform that doesn't have

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
even though Dapr is written in Go and is running on a platform that doesn't have
```

Python installed!

The Wasm binary must be a program compiled with the WebAssembly System
Interface (WASI). The binary can be a program you've written such as in Go, or
an interpreter you use to run inlined scripts, such as Python.

> Minimally, a user must specify a Wasm binary compiled with the canonical WASI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Minimally, you must specify a Wasm binary compiled with the canonical WASI
```

> version `wasi_snapshot_preview1` a.k.a. `wasip1`, often abbreviated to `wasi`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
version `wasi_snapshot_preview1` (a.k.a. `wasip1`), often abbreviated to `wasi`.
```

> If compiling yourself in Go 1.21+, this is `GOOS=wasip1 GOARCH=wasm`, whereas

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If compiling in Go 1.21+, this is `GOOS=wasip1 GOARCH=wasm`. In TinyGo, Rust, and Zig, this is the target `wasm32-wasi`.
```

> in TinyGo, Rust and Zig, this is the target `wasm32-wasi`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

You can also re-use an existing binary. For example, [Wasm Language Runtimes](https://github.com/vmware-labs/webassembly-language-runtimes)

> distributes interpreters including PHP, Python and Ruby, already compiled to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
distributes interpreters (including PHP, Python, and Ruby) already compiled to
```

WASI.

> Wasm binaries are loaded from a URL. For example, a URL "file://rewrite.wasm"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Wasm binaries are loaded from a URL. For example, the URL `file://rewrite.wasm`
```

> loads "rewrite.wasm" from the current directory of the process. On Kubernetes,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
loads `rewrite.wasm` from the current directory of the process. On Kubernetes,
```

> see [mounting volumes to the Dapr sidecar]({{< ref kubernetes-volume-mounts.md >}})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
see [How to: Mount Pod volumes to the Dapr sidecar]({{< ref kubernetes-volume-mounts.md >}})
```

to configure a filesystem mount that can contain Wasm binaries.

> Dapr embeds [wazero](https://wazero.io) which loads programs compiled with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dapr embeds [wazero](https://wazero.io), which loads programs compiled with the
```

> WebAssembly System Interface (WASI), obviating platform dependencies or forking

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
WASI, obviating platform dependencies or forking
```

> otherwise needed to accomplish something like this.

Reviewer 2: > Dapr embeds wazero, which loads programs compiled with the WASI, obviating platform dependencies or forking otherwise needed to accomplish something like this.

This sentence is a little odd... is there a way you can reword this to make it more clear?

Author: sure. I'll give a go on rebase! thanks for all the help so far

Author: tried in https://github.com/dapr/docs/pull/3362/commits/8bcf61570e5b1a0bce76cf6835195411c647de53 lemme know

Reviewer 2: Awesome, much clearer! Thanks!

## Component format

> To configure a WebAssembly (Wasm) binding, create a component of type

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure a Wasm binding, create a component of type
```

`bindings.wasm`. See [this guide]({{< ref "howto-bindings.md#1-create-a-binding" >}})
on how to create and apply a binding configuration.

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: wasm
spec:
  type: bindings.wasm
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: url
    value: "file://uppercase.wasm"
```

## Spec metadata fields

| Field | Details                                                        | Required | Example        |
|-------|----------------------------------------------------------------|----------|----------------|

> | url   | The URL of the resource including the Wasm binary to instantiate. The supported schemes include "file://". The path of a "file://" URL is relative to the Dapr process unless it begins with '/'. | true     | "file://hello.wasm" |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| url   | The URL of the resource including the Wasm binary to instantiate. The supported schemes include `file://`. The path of a `file://` URL is relative to the Dapr process unless it begins with `/`. | true     | `file://hello.wasm` |
```

## Binding support

This component supports **output binding** with the following operations:

- `execute`

## Example request

The `data` field, if present will be the program's STDIN. You can optionally
pass metadata properties with each request:

- `args` any CLI arguments, comma-separated. This excludes the program name.

For example, if your Wasm binary is `ruby.wasm`, the following request would

> have the response data "Hello, salaboy"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
have the response data "Hello, salaboy":
```
